Release notes v0.36 — Error estimation suggestion (#5641)
PennyLaneAI/pennylane: doc/releases/changelog-0.36.0.md

  [(#5154)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5154)
  [(#5464)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5464)
  [(#5465)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5465)
  [(#5278)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5278)
  [(#5384)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5384)

  Two new user-facing classes enable calculating and propagating 
  gate errors in PennyLane:

  * `qml.resource.SpectralNormError`: the spectral norm error is defined as the 
    distance, in [spectral norm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matrix_norm), between 
    the true unitary we intend to apply and the approximate unitary that is actually applied.

>   * `qml.resource.error.ErrorOperation`: a base class that inherits from `qml.operation.Operation` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * `qml.resource.ErrorOperation`: a base class that inherits from `qml.operation.Operation` 
```

    and represents quantum operations which carry some form of algorithmic error.

  `SpectralNormError` can be used for back-of-the-envelope type calculations like obtaining the
  spectral norm error between two unitaries via `get_error`:

  ```python
  import pennylane as qml

>   from pennylane.resource.error import ErrorOperation, SpectralNormError

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  from pennylane.resource import ErrorOperation, SpectralNormError
```

  [(#5154)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5154)
  [(#5464)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5464)
  [(#5465)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5465)
  [(#5278)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5278)
  [(#5384)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5384)

>   Two new user-facing classes are now available to allow for calculating and propagating 

Reviewer 2: Maybe?
```suggestion
  Two new user-facing classes enable calculating and propagating 
```

  gate errors in PennyLane:

>   * `qml.resource.error.SpectralNormError`: the spectral norm error is defined as the 

Reviewer: Please can we always go with the minimal import depth. This can be accessed through `qml.resource.SpetralNormError`

Author: ```suggestion
  * `qml.resource.SpectralNormError`: the spectral norm error is defined as the 
```

Reviewer: Note the same also for `ErrorOperation` and the `from pennylane.resource.error` import (though need to check)

    distance, in [spectral norm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matrix_norm), between 
    the true unitary we intend to apply and the approximate unitary that is actually applied.

  * `qml.resource.error.ErrorOperation`: a base class that inherits from `qml.operation.Operation` 
    and represents quantum operations which carry some form of algorithmic error.

>   `SpectralNormError` can be used for back-of-the-napkin type calculations like obtaining the

Reviewer 2: Is this one of those :us: vs :canada: things?
```suggestion
  `SpectralNormError` can be used for back-of-the-envelope type calculations like obtaining the
```

Author: lol

  spectral norm error between two unitaries via `get_error`:

  ```python
  import pennylane as qml
  from pennylane.resource.error import ErrorOperation, SpectralNormError

  intended_op = qml.RY(0.40, 0)
  actual_op = qml.RY(0.41, 0) # angle of rotation is slightly off
  ```
  
  ```pycon
  >>> SpectralNormError.get_error(intended_op, actual_op)
  0.004999994791668309

>   ```

Reviewer: @DSGuala how much of the `get_error` functionality do we want to emphasize at this point? I'd always considered `specs` as the main entrypoint for error propagation and this as more of an advanced/specific usecase.

Reviewer 2: I'm happy to have `get_error` explained here.

`specs` is indeed the main entrypoint, but I think this is a nice use-case that users will be interested in.

>   `SpectralNormError` is also the focus of specifying errors in the following ways:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  `SpectralNormError` is also a key tool to specify errors in larger quantum circuits:
```

>   * For operations representing a major building block of an algorithm, we can create a class

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * For operations representing a major building block of an algorithm, we can create a custom operation
```

>   * For operations representing a major building block of an algorithm, we can create a class

Reviewer 2: Maybe something like:
```suggestion
  * To represent error-prone parts of an algorithm, we can create a class
```
Error-prone sounds more like noise (not `AlgorithmicError`) than error coming from an approximation (`AlgorithmicError`) though.

    that inherits from `ErrorOperation`. This child class must override the `error` method and 

>     return a `SpectralNormError` instance:

Reviewer 2: > must return a `SepctralNormError`

Technically, could return a user-defined `AlgorithmicError`. But not a blocker.

Author: ```suggestion
    should return a `SpectralNormError` instance:
```

😃

    ```python
    class MyErrorOperation(ErrorOperation):
        def __init__(self, error_val, wires):
            self.error_val = error_val
            super().__init__(wires=wires)

        def error(self):
            return SpectralNormError(self.error_val)
    ```

>     In this toy example, `MyErrorOperation` is doing nothing but introducing an arbitrary `SpectralNormError`
>     whenever `MyErrorOperation` is applied in a QNode. It does not require a decomposition or matrix representation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    In this toy example, `MyErrorOperation` introduces an arbitrary `SpectralNormError`
    when called in a QNode. It does not require a decomposition or matrix representation
```

    when used with `null.qubit` (suggested for use with resource and error estimation since circuit executions are

>     not required to calculates resources or errors).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    not required to calculate resources or errors).
```

>     not required to calculates resources or errors).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    not required to calculate resources or errors).
```

  
    ```python
    dev = qml.device("null.qubit")

    @qml.qnode(dev)
    def circuit():
        MyErrorOperation(0.1, wires=0)
        MyErrorOperation(0.2, wires=1)
        return qml.state()
    ```

>     `default.qubit` can be used instead, but `MyErrorOperation` must define a decomposition or a matrix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Minor point, but maybe this is not needed.

    The total spectral norm error of the circuit can be calculated using `qml.specs`:

    ```pycon
    >>> qml.specs(circuit)()['errors']
    {'SpectralNormError': SpectralNormError(0.30000000000000004)}
    ```

  * PennyLane already includes a number of built-in building blocks for algorithms like
    `QuantumPhaseEstimation` and `TrotterProduct`. `TrotterProduct` now propagates errors 
    based on the number of steps performed in the Trotter product. `QuantumPhaseEstimation` 

>     now propagates errors based on the error of its input unitary.

Reviewer 2: Yes! :rocket: Much better

        return qml.state()
    ```

    Again, the total spectral norm error of the circuit can be calculated using `qml.specs`:

    ```pycon
    >>> qml.specs(circuit)()["errors"]
    {'SpectralNormError': SpectralNormError(0.07616666666666666)}
    ```

>   Check out our amazing demo on using these new features in a real-world example!

Author: Need link

Reviewer: It's been merged in but the public link won't be available until Tuesday

* Reflecting about a given quantum state is now available via `qml.Reflection`.
  This operation is very useful in the amplitude amplification algorithm and offers a generalization

>   of `qml.FlipSign` which operates on basis states.

Author: ```suggestion
  of `qml.FlipSign`, which operates on basis states.
```

* `qml.ApproxTimeEvolution` is now compatible with any operator that has a defined `pauli_rep`.
  [(#5362)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5362)

> * `Hamiltonian.pauli_rep` is now defined if the hamiltonian is a linear combination of Pauli operators.

Author: ```suggestion
* `Hamiltonian.pauli_rep` is now defined if the Hamiltonian is a linear combination of Pauli operators.
```

  to see how this can be done.
  [(#5339)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5339)

> * When new operator arithmetic is enabled, `qml.Hamiltonian` is now an alias for `qml.ops.LinearCombination`.

Author: Duplicate
